I first used Scala in 2012. Back then, the language was young and it was a rough
experience: weak tooling, confusing libraries, and a community focused more on
fun experiments rather than serious workloads. But something caught my interest.
Here was a programming language that had the convenience of scripting, the
performance and scalability of a compiled language, and a strong focus on safety
and correctness. Normally convenience, performance, and safety were things you
had to trade off against each other, but with Scala for the first time it seemed
I could have them all.

Since then, I've worked in a wide range of languages: websites in PHP and
Javascript, software in Java or C# or F#, and massive codebases in Python and
Coffeescript. Problems around convenience, performance, and safety were
ever-present, no matter which language I was working in. It was clear to me that
Scala has already solved many of these eternal problems without compromise, but
it was difficult to reap these benefits unless the ecosystem of tools, libraries
and community could catch up.

Today, the Scala ecosystem has caught up. Tooling has matured, simpler libraries
have emerged, and the community is increasingly using Scala in serious
production deployments. I myself have played a part in this, building tools and
libraries to help push Scala into the mainstream. The Scala experience today is
better in every way than my experience in 2012.

This book aims to introduce the Scala programming experience of today. You will
learn how to use Scala in real-world applications like building websites,
concurrent data pipelines, or programming language interpreters. Through these
projects, you will see how Scala is the easiest way to tackle complex and
difficult problems in an elegant and straightforward manner.

\- **Li Haoyi, author of *Hands-on Scala Programming***